tests: boardfarm_plugins: add boardfarm tests template (#1108)
prplfoundation/prplMesh: tests/boardfarm_plugins/README.md

> ### Boardfarm plugin dir structure:

Reviewer: I realize we don't have it in any other markdown file, but we really should have a copyright header:

```suggestion
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
Copyright (c) 2020 the prplMesh contributors
This code is subject to the terms of the BSD+Patent license.
See LICENSE file for more details.
-->

### Boardfarm plugin dir structure:
```

Note that this would be the first time we use that "the prplMesh contributors" approach. If you feel uncomfortable with it, you can also just use your own name.

Author: Got it.
"the prplMesh contributors" is OK.

```
boardfarm_*
    |
    +- __init__.py
    +- boardfarm_config.json
    +- devices
    |   |
    |   +- __init__.py
    |   +- sample_device_0.py
    |   +- sample_device_1.py
    +- tests
    |   |
    |   +- __init__.py
    |   +- sample_test_0.py
    |   +- sample_test_1.py
    |   +- ...
    +- testsuites.cfg
```

### Custom device description
If the tested device is abcent in `<boardfarm-repo-root>/boardfarm/devices` dir we can specify new one
by creating `boardfarm_config.json` file sort of:
```json
{
    "<name>": {
        "board_type": "<model>",
        "conn_cmd": "telnet <server> <port>",
        "devices": [
            {
                "type": "debian",
                "name": "wan",
                "ipaddr": "port2",
                "color": "cyan"
            },
            {
                "type": "debian",
                "name": "lan",
                "ipaddr": "port3",
                "color": "blue"
            }
        ],
        "powerip": "<powerserver>",
        "powerport": "<outlet>"
    }
}
```
Where:
* `name` is any unique name at all
* `model` is a descriptive model name
* `conn_cmd` is the command to run to connect to the board

> * `devices` is an array of devices that will be added, must have a WAN device at minimum

Reviewer: Is a WAN device really required? Why?

Author: > Is a WAN device really required? Why?

By the moment, README.md is still in progress and that list of parameters may change when all acceptance criteria will be completed.

* `powerip` and `powerport` are the network-control power unit and outlet to reset the board
When running boardfarm we can specify that custom config with in following manner:
```
-c /path/to/boardfarm_config.json
```

### Devices
There're bunch of devices already exist in `<boardfarm-repo-root>/boardfarm/devices`,
but if we created custom `boardfarm_config.json` wich uses previously unknown device,
then we must implement its class in plugin dir `boardfarm_*/devices/<device-name>.py`.
As template for the device we can use `<boardfarm-repo-root>/devices/base.py`.

### Test suites

> Custom test suite shoud be presetn in root of boardfarm plugin dir and its name must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom test suite should be present in root of boardfarm plugin dir and its name must
```

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
Copyright (c) 2020 the prplMesh contributors
This code is subject to the terms of the BSD+Patent license.
See LICENSE file for more details.
-->

### Prerequisites

To obtain prplMesh and boardfarm sources a Google repo tool is used.

> Refer to its README for detailed info:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to its [README](https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/+/refs/heads/master/README.md) for detailed info.
```

> https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/+/refs/heads/master/README.md

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Boardfarm installation

1. To obtain sources using previously mentioned repo tool run:
```
repo init -u https://github.com/prplfoundation/prplMesh-manifest.git
repo sync

> repo forall -p -c 'git checkout $REPO_RREV'

Reviewer 2: This is actually optional, it is perfectly fine to work in detached head (which is what repo is doing by default when its saying "no branch") - bottom line, you should add a comment here saying this is optional (nitpick)

```

2. Install boardfarm to your host:
```

> sudo python3 setup.py install

Reviewer 2: 1. You need to add a 'cd boardfarm` before this commant
2. Is there a way to install it without sudo?

Author: > 1. You need to add a 'cd boardfarm` before this commant
> 2. Is there a way to install it without sudo?

1. Indeed
2. No, because we need permissions to write in `/usr/local/lib/python3.6/dist-packages` where boardfarm will be installed.

Reviewer: Actually, you *can* install without sudo, you just need an additional option `--user`:
```suggestion
python3 setup.py install --user
```

Reviewer: ^^^ You can install without sudo

In addition, I really don't think it is necessary to install it. It is sufficient to install the prerequisites with `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`. This is important because installing it means that every change to boardfarm also requires re-install. Don't tell me it's not possible, I tried it :-). It does require some changes, as indicated elsewhere.

                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan0"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan2"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}

```
Mandatory fields for parent device are:
* `name` is any unique name at all
* `board_type` is a name of existing device class
* `devices` is a list of devices that will be added, must be present even it's empty(i.e. `"devices": []`).
Mandatory fields for child devices(those are listed in **devices** section of parent one):
* `name` is any unique name at all
* `type` is a name of existing device class

When running boardfarm we can specify that custom config with in following manner:
```
-c /path/to/custom_config.json
```

### Devices
There are several devices already existing in `<boardfarm-repo-root>/boardfarm/devices`, but if we created `custom_config.json` which uses previously unknown device, then we must implement its class in plugin dir `boardfarm_*/devices/<device-name>.py`.
As template for the device we can use `<boardfarm-repo-root>/devices/base.py`.

### Test suites

> Custom test suite should be present in root of boardfarm plugin dir and its name mustmatch `testsuites*.cfg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom test suite should be present in root of boardfarm plugin dir and its name must match `testsuites*.cfg`.
```

TestCaseName2
```

### Test file contents:
Each test must be presented as class, for test file template please refer to:
`boardfarm/tests/bft_base_test.py`
Below you can see mandatory class members:
```
class SampleTest(BftBaseTest):
    def runTest(self):
        '''Main test logic must be implemented here.'''
        print('{}: Running...'.format(self.__class__.__name__))

    def skipTest(self):
        '''Method invoked if DUT doesn't respond.

        If the DUT's consoles don't respond, generally the device is considered as 'dead'.
        Here we can provide info about possible reasons and suggestions.
        '''
        print('{}: Skipping...'.format(self.__class__.__name__))

    def recover(self):
        '''Method invoked if test fails with an unexpected exception type.

        According to boardfarm sources, it is considered as deprecated,
        but it is suggested to leave it as a stub to prevent possible faults.
        '''
        print('{}: Recovering...'.format(self.__class__.__name__)

    @classmethod
    def teardown_class(cls):
        '''Teardown method, optional for boardfarm tests.'''
        print('{}: Teardown...'.format(cls.__class__.__name__))
```

> For operational example please refer to **boardfarm_prplmesh** plugin.

Reviewer: :+1:

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
Copyright (c) 2020 the prplMesh contributors
This code is subject to the terms of the BSD+Patent license.
See LICENSE file for more details.
-->

### Boardfarm installation

1. To obtain boardfarm sources alongside prplMesh ones run:
```
repo init -u https://github.com/prplfoundation/prplMesh-manifest.git
repo sync
```

2. Apply provided patch(*boardfarm_hotfix.patch*) to fix boardfarm issue with log writing:
```
cd boardfarm
git apply ../prplMesh/tests/boardfarm_plugins/boardfarm_hotfix.patch
```
3. Install boardfarm to your host:
```
sudo python3 setup.py install
```

### Boardfarm plugin dir structure:
```
boardfarm_*     <--- "boardfarm_" prefix is mandatory for boardfarm plugin name
    |
    +- __init__.py
    +- boardfarm_config.json
    +- devices
    |   |
    |   +- __init__.py
    |   +- sample_device_0.py
    |   +- sample_device_1.py
    +- tests
    |   |
    |   +- __init__.py
    |   +- sample_test_0.py
    |   +- sample_test_1.py
    |   +- ...
    +- testsuites.cfg
```

### Custom device description
If the tested device is abcent in `boardfarm/boardfarm/devices` dir

> we can specify new one by creating `custom_config.json` file sort of:

Reviewer: Please refer to CODINGSTYLE.md for the coding style of markdown documents:

> Lines in markdown documents are not wrapped, but every sentence should start on a new line.
> Wrapping in text files is annoying, because adding a single word can cause the entire paragraph to be rewrapped.
> On the other hand, putting everything on one line is not readable either.
> As a compromise, no fixed wrapping is done.
> Instead, each sentence should be started on a new line.
> This way, the diff will only show the sentences that are really affected by the change.
> For very long sentences, subsentences may also be placed on a separate line.

Please apply this to the entire document.

```json
{
    "prplmesh_dummy": {
        "name": "gateway",

>         "board_type": "prplmesh_docker",

Reviewer: AFAIU, this is supposed to be the DUT, and the "devices" section below is for additional stuff that is connected to the DUT and interacts with it (although it seems the boundary is a bit vague, it also seems to represent parts of the DUT e.g. wan and lan).

Also AFAIU, we were planning to run only agent on the physical DUT and always use a docker for the controller.

So, I think the DUT would typically not be the gateway with controller role, but rather a repeater with agent role.

However, since this is just an example, it doesn't matter much.

                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan0"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan2"
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "name": "repeater2",
                "type": "prplmesh_docker",
                "role": "agent",
                "delay": 7,
                "conn_cmd": "",
                "radios": [
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan0"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan2"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}

```
Mandatory fields for parent device are:
* `name` is any unique name at all
* `board_type` is a name of existing device class
* `devices` is a list of devices that will be added, must have at least one device.
Mandatory fields for child devices(those are listed in **devices** section of parent one):
* `name` is any unique name at all
* `type` is a name of existing device class

> When running boardfarm we can specify that custom config with in following manner:

Reviewer: (nitpick) this should be a new paragraph.
```suggestion

When running boardfarm we can specify that custom config with in following manner:
```

```
-c /path/to/custom_config.json
```

### Devices
There're bunch of devices already exist in `<boardfarm-repo-root>/boardfarm/devices`,
but if we created `custom_config.json` which uses previously unknown device,
then we must implement its class in plugin dir `boardfarm_*/devices/<device-name>.py`.
As template for the device we can use `<boardfarm-repo-root>/devices/base.py`.

### Test suites
Custom test suite should be present in root of boardfarm plugin dir and its name must
match `testsuites*.cfg`.
Suite names are specified in brackets [], test names must match test classes names
defined in the files at the "boardfarm_*/tests/" directory.
Sample contents:
```
[suite-name]
TestCaseName0

[another-suite-name]
TestCaseName0
TestCaseName1
TestCaseName2
```

### Test file contents:
Each test must be presented as class, for test file template please refer to:
`boardfarm/tests/bft_base_test.py`

> Above you can see mandatory class members:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can see mandatory class members:
```
at least I think that's what you mean?

```
class SampleTest(BftBaseTest):

>     def runTest(self):
>         '''
>         Main test logic must be implemented here.
>         '''

Reviewer: As @tomereli commented:
```suggestion
    def runTest(self):
        '''Main test logic must be implemented here.'''
```

Cfr. [PEP8 documentation strings](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#documentation-strings)

        print('{}: Running...'.format(self.__class__.__name__))

    def skipTest(self):

>         '''
>         Method invoked if DUT's consoles don't respond,
>         generally considering device as 'dead'.
>         Here we can provide info about possible reasons and suggestions.
>         '''

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        '''Method invoked if DUT doesn't respond.
        
        If the DUT's consoles don't respond, generally the device is considered as 'dead'.
        Here we can provide info about possible reasons and suggestions.
        '''
```

Also for the other docstrings please follow PEP8 coding style.

        print('{}: Skipping...'.format(self.__class__.__name__))

    def recover(self):
        '''
        Method invoked if test fails with an unexpected exception type.
        According to boardfarm sources, it is considered as deprecated,
        but it is suggested to leave it as a stub to prevent possible faults.
        '''
        print('{}: Recovering...'.format(self.__class__.__name__)

    @classmethod
    def teardown_class(cls):
        '''
        Teardown method, optional for boardfarm tests.
        Its 'strange' declaration comparing to other test class methods

>         caused only to boardfarm workflow

Reviewer: What does this mean?

Are you referring to the `@classmethod` bit? There's nothing strange about that, it's a decorator. [Search the web for some explanation](https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/python/classmethod-decorator)

Author: > What does this mean?
> 
> Are you referring to the `@classmethod` bit? There's nothing strange about that, it's a decorator. [Search the web for some explanation](https://www.tutorialsteacher.com/python/classmethod-decorator)

I considered `teardown_class` function strange because I don't understand why it was implemented as 'static' one.
Anyway, It seems like that comment is pointless and I'll remove it leaving only function description.

        '''
        print('{}: Teardown...'.format(cls.__class__.__name__))
```

> For operational example please refer to **boardfarm_sample_plugin** code.

Reviewer: As a wrote before: I don't think it makes sense to add a `boardfarm_sample_plugin`. Instead, add the `boardfarm_prplmesh` plugin. We start out with the sample code, and replace that with the test_flows code as we continue doing the boardfarm conversion.

Once the boardfarm conversion is done, there is really no reason to keep a sample plugin in our repository. So it's better to work on the *actual* plugin right away (but fill it in with sample code to start with).

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
Copyright (c) 2020 the prplMesh contributors
This code is subject to the terms of the BSD+Patent license.
See LICENSE file for more details.
-->

### Boardfarm installation

> 1. To obtain boardfarm sources alongside prplMesh ones run:

Reviewer 2: I suggest to also add a Prerequisites section which will explain that google repo needs to be downloaded - you can refer to its README.md - https://gerrit.googlesource.com/git-repo/+/refs/heads/master/README.md

```

> repo init -u https://github.com/prplfoundation/prplMesh-manifest.git

Reviewer 2: I actually think that we should have a single manifest in prpl and use different branches for different projects where needed, so I would change that to just 'manifest.git' (nitpick)

Reviewer: Renaming an existing repository is not something that is advisable unless there's a very good reason for it.

Reviewer 2: I created this repository and it is not used anywhere yet, so if we ever want to rename it, now's the time. Its not terribly important but normally the manifest repository is just called manifest, don't know why I chose `prplMesh-manifest` :/

repo sync
```

> 2. Apply provided patch(*boardfarm_hotfix.patch*) to fix boardfarm issue with log writing:

Reviewer 2: In this case I suggest we fork boardfarm and fix it in our fork. Users should not be applying patches.

Reviewer: :+1: 
The original assumption was that we would be able to use boardfarm as is. If not, we need to fork it.

That also allows us to create an upstream PR.

Author: Added PR to boardfarm fork with changes proposed in patch:
https://github.com/prplfoundation/boardfarm/pull/8

```
cd boardfarm
git apply ../prplMesh/tests/boardfarm_plugins/boardfarm_hotfix.patch
```
3. Install boardfarm to your host:
```
sudo python3 setup.py install
```
4. Copy missing *html* templates to installed boardfarm dir, example:
```
sudo cp -r boardfarm/html /usr/local/lib/python3.6/dist-packages/boardfarm-1.1.1-py3.6.egg/boardfarm/
```

> (They were missed in setup script)

Reviewer 3: Maybe include into `boardfarm_hotfix.patch` also changes in `setup.py` script to fix installation `html` files?
They maybe installed as [additional data files](https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/setupscript.html#installing-additional-files)

### Boardfarm plugin dir structure:
```

> boardfarm_*                 <--- that name template is mandatory for boardfarm plugin

Reviewer 3: I suggest to make comment more strict, i.e.
`"boardfarm_" prefix is mandatory for boardfarm plugin name`

    |
    +- __init__.py
    +- boardfarm_config.json
    +- devices
    |   |
    |   +- __init__.py
    |   +- sample_device_0.py
    |   +- sample_device_1.py
    +- tests
    |   |
    |   +- __init__.py
    |   +- sample_test_0.py
    |   +- sample_test_1.py
    |   +- ...
    +- testsuites.cfg
```

### Custom device description
If the tested device is abcent in `boardfarm/boardfarm/devices` dir
we can specify new one by creating `custom_config.json` file sort of:
```json
{
    "prplmesh_dummy": {
        "name": "gateway",
        "board_type": "prplmesh_docker",
        "role": "controller",
        "delay": 7,
        "conn_cmd": "",

>         "cleanup_cmd": "docker container rm -f gateway",

Reviewer 3: You incapsulates in class `PrplMeshDocker` that controller/agent will run inside docker container.
So i suggest to execute command for stop docker container implicitly in class `PrplMeshDocker` and avoid mention `docker container rm` in test setup config file.

There will be one more advantage in this solution - we won't duplicate container name in fields `name` and `cleanup_cmd`

        "connection_type": "local_cmd",
        "devices": [
            {
                "name": "repeater1",
                "type": "prplmesh_docker",

>                 "role": "agent",

Reviewer 3: As far as i understand 
1) we are going to use similar test setup config but set another types: `prplmesh_docker` -> `prplwrt`, `radio_dummy` -> `radio_hw` and etc.
2) one container (or one board) may run both controller and agent
See peace of `test_gw_repeater.sh` for run gateway:
```
    [ "$START_GATEWAY" = "true" ] && {
        status "Start GW (Controller + local Agent)"
        "${rootdir}"/tools/docker/run.sh -u "${UNIQUE_ID}" ${VERBOSE_OPT} ${FORCE_OPT} ${GW_EXTRA_OPT} \
            start-controller-agent -d -n "${GW_NAME}" -m 00:11:22:33 -- "$@"
    }
```

So i think that ability to use only single **role** for device is not correct and it's needed to have ability to say that in docker (or board) we want to run both controller and agent

Author: > 1. we are going to use similar test setup config but set another types: `prplmesh_docker` -> `prplwrt`, `radio_dummy` -> `radio_hw` and etc.

Yeap, right.

> So i think that ability to use only single **role** for device is not correct and it's needed to have ability to say that in docker (or board) we want to run both controller and agent

I'll fix that and add `"role": "both"` for cases when we need both roles at single device.

Author: @MuteSpirit , I've checked `test_gw_repeater.sh` code - option `start-controller-agent` is the only available to start controller.
As `test_flows.py` apparently using only these two options: `start-controller-agent` and `start-agent` - I think, we should maintain only these ones so far..

Reviewer: I think we more or less decided that we would use repeater1 as the DUT and always use a docker for the controller - at least to start with. The reasoning behind this is that the controller functionality anyway gets tested even if it runs in docker, and it shouldn't make a difference whether it's in docker or on an actual device.

                        "iface": "wlan0"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan2"
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "name": "repeater2",
                "type": "prplmesh_docker",
                "role": "agent",
                "delay": 7,
                "conn_cmd": "",
                "cleanup_cmd": "docker container rm -f repeater2",
                "radios": [
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan0"
                    },
                    {
                        "type": "radio_dummy",
                        "iface": "wlan2"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
}

```
Mandatory fields for parent device are:
* `name` is any unique name at all
* `board_type` is a name of existing device class
* `devices` is a list of devices that will be added, must have at least one device.
Mandatory fields for child devices(those are listed in **devices** section of parent one):
* `name` is any unique name at all

> * `board_type` is a name of existing device class

Reviewer 3: For devices it's needed to provide `type` instead of `board_type`

When running boardfarm we can specify that custom config with in following manner:
```
-c /path/to/custom_config.json
```

### Devices

> There're bunch of devices already exist in `<boardfarm-repo-root>/boardfarm/devices`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several devices already existing in `<boardfarm-repo-root>/boardfarm/devices`,
```

but if we created `custom_config.json` which uses previously unknown device,
then we must implement its class in plugin dir `boardfarm_*/devices/<device-name>.py`.
As template for the device we can use `<boardfarm-repo-root>/devices/base.py`.

### Test suites

> Custom test suite shoud be presetn in root of boardfarm plugin dir and its name must

Reviewer 3: Fix the typo: `presetn` -> `present`

match `testsuites*.cfg`.

> Suite names are specified in brackets [], test names must match tests found

Reviewer 3: I suggest to edit phrase next way:
`test names must match test classes names defined in the files at the "boardfarm_*/tests/" directory`

in files in the tests directory.
Sample contents:
```
[suite-name]
TestCaseName0

[another-suite-name]
TestCaseName0
TestCaseName1
TestCaseName2
```

### Test file contents:
Each test must be presented as class, for test file template please refer to:
`boardfarm/tests/bft_base_test.py`
Above you can see mandatory class members:
```
class SampleTest(BftBaseTest):
    def runTest(self):
        '''

>         Main test logic must be implemented here.

Reviewer 2: Is this according to our python coding style?

Author: > Is this according to our python coding style?

Actually no, but such naming style is the part of boardfarm plugin requirements.
(i.e. it is mandatory)
